#RenPy Voice Enhancement Project
-----------------------------------------

This project is to add three funtions to RenPy's Voice System:

* Toggle Characters Voices

* File Format system for voice()

* Two new actions for the screen language

-----------------------------------------

    def voice(filename, tag=None):
        """
        :doc: voice

        Plays `filename` on the voice channel.

        `filename`
            The filename to play. This is formatted by
            :var:`config.voice_filename_format` variable is used to format
            this parameter.

        `tag`
            If this is not None, it should be a string giving a voice 
            tag to be played. If None, this takes its default value from
            the voice_tag of the Character that causes the next
            interaction.

            The voice tag is used to specify which character is speaking,
            to allow a user to mute or unmute the voices of particular
            characters.
        """

The filename will be that path of the voice file, yet if you wish to 
change the format you would call up this confi. funtion:

    config.voice_filename_format

By default the config.voice_filename_format is defualt to {filename} for
backward compatability sake, yet can be changed to other file formats 
you wish. One example would be:

    config.voice_filename_format = 'voice/{tag}/{filename}.ogg'

With this example, if filename = '0001' and tag = 'eileen' then passed 
the config.voice_filename_format it will look for it in the 
'voice/eileen/0001.ogg' in your game directory and play it using the 
voice_interact() whcih is called upon each interaction.

Now with the tag is where the majic to toggle on and off character()'s 
voices. Like stated above if tag is not equal to None it be what ever 
you the user places in the voice statement.

    voice eileen '0001.ogg'
    e 'Hello World'

Renpy will read the name eileen equal to the tag in the voice() and play
the voice file using the voice_interact() function.

Now if you keep the tag to equal None, it will look a the voice_tag of 
the Character that causes the next interaction. Yet if neither one of 
have a tag to the character. Renpy should ignore this unless you used it
in config.voice_filename_format which is in the config.rpy

An example of this would be like this:

    define e = Character('Eileen', voice_tag = 'eileen')
    
    voice '0001.ogg'
    e 'Hello World'

Understand this will work as the same as the code example above this one
it's just your choice weither you whish type more or less. Depending on 
your style.

To toggle off and on individual Character()'s voice, you will need to 
add one of two actions in your preference screen or what ever screen you
would perfer it in. These would be the:

    SetVoiceMute(voice_tag , mute)
    
And the:

    ToggleVoiceMute(voice_tag, invert_select=False)

Which the way to use them would be like this:

    vbox:
        label "Eileen's Voice"
        textbutton "Not Muted" action SetVoiceMute("eileen", False)
        textbutton "Muted" action ToggleVoiceMute("eileen", True)
        textbutton "Toggle Mute" action  ToggleVoiceMute("eileen")

If these button are pressed it will either add or removed the voice_tag 
from the:

    persistent._voice_mute

If it is the in the persistent._voice_mute RenPy will mute it, but if it
is not in the persistent._voice_mute, RenPy will play it.Since the 
variable is persistent, RenPy will remember what voices will be muted 
when you continue the game next time.
