==============
Full Changelog
==============

Ren'Py 6.11.1
=============

Add the :func:`AlphaBlend` displayable and the :func:`AlphaDissolve`
transition. These take two displayables, and use the alpha channel of
a third displayable to blend them together. (The third displayable is
often an animation, allowing the effect to change over time.)

Transforms no longer cause a divide by zero exception when the zoom,
xzoom, or yzoom properties are 0.

Fixed a bug with scaling, that occured when switching between the
scaled software and GL renderers.


Ren'Py 6.11.0
=============

OpenGL Support
--------------

Ren'Py will now take advantage of a computer's OpenGL hardware
acceleration, if supported. This OpenGL support has several
user-visible changes:

* The window containing a Ren'Py game can be resized or maximized,
  using standard window controls. When the window's aspect ratio does
  not match the game's aspect ratio, black bars will be added.

* Displaying in full-screen mode should not change the monitor's
  resolution. This will prevent the game from being distorted when
  displayed on a monitor with a different aspect ratio.

* Unless disabled in the video driver configuration, Ren'Py will use
  vertical blank synchronization, eliminating image tearing.

* GPU rendering is used, which should make drawing the screen faster
  in most circumstances.

Software rendering is still supported, and Ren'Py will automatically
fall back to software rendering if it detects an improperly configured
video card.

You can test that Ren'Py is in OpenGL mode by attempting to resize the
window. If it's resizable, it's OpenGL, otherwise, software rendering
is being used.

  
Screens and Screen Language
---------------------------

This release introduces a new screen system, which allows one to use
the new screen language to declaratively specify portions of the user
interface. The screen language supersedes layouts, overlay functions,
imagemaps, and most other means of customizing the out-of-game menus
and the in-game screens.

The previous way of customizing the behavior of the game menu, the
layout system, had problems, especially when using imagemap
layouts. Screens were single-purpose, and it would be difficult to
(for example) load a quick-save game from the main menu, without
extensive Python code.

The screen system addresses this by providing a pool of functionality,
in the form of Actions and BarValues. This makes it possible to pick
and choose functionality, and add it to screens as is deemed
necessary.

Transform Changes
-----------------

* If a transform does not define one of the position properties
  :propref:`xpos`, :propref:`ypos`, :propref:`xanchor`, or :propref:`yanchor`,
  that property will be taken from the transform's child, if the
  defines that property.

  This makes it possible to have one transform control a displayable's
  vertical motion, and the other control the horizontal. But this is
  incompatible with previous behavior, and so can be disabled with the
  :var:`config.transform_uses_child_position` variable.

* The new config.default_transform variable allows a transform to
  specify the initial transform properties of an image that does not
  have a more specific transform applied to it. Its default value is
  center, a transform that shows the image at the center-bottom of the
  screen.

  This can lead to a behavior change. When an image is shown, and then
  shown transforms, the transform will be initialized to the bottom
  center of the screen, not the top-left. The reset transform can be
  used to reset the position to the top-left.

* Transform (and ui.transform) have been changed so that their
  arguments can now be prefixed with a style prefix. One can write
  ui.transform(idle_rotate=30, hover_rotate=90) and have it
  work. 

* Added the rotate_pad transform property, which controls how
  Transform pads rotated displayables. When set to False, _not_ the
  default, it's now possible to rotate a (100, 50) displayable by 90
  degrees, and have the result be (50, 100) in size. 

Other Changes
-------------

* The Ren'Py documentation is in the process of being rewritten. This
  changelog is now being maintained as part of the Ren'Py
  documentation.

* Added support for composite style properties, that allow several style
  properties to be set using a single parameter. The new composite style
  properties are:

  * pos - takes a pair, and uses it to set xpos and ypos.
  * anchor - takes a pair, and uses it to set xanchor and yanchor.
  * align - takes a pair, and uses it to set xalign and yalign. (And
    hence xpos, ypos, xanchor, and yanchor.)
  * area - take (x, y, height, width) pair, and tries to set properties
    such that the displayable will be placed inside the rectangle. This 
    sets the xpos, ypos, xanchor, yanchor, xfill, yfill, xminimum, yminimum,
    xmaximum, and ymaximum properties.

* ui.add can now take transform properties as keyword arguments. If at
  least one transform property is present, ui.add will create a
  transform that wraps the displayable it's adding to the
  screen. 

* The new :func:`LiveTile` displayable tiles its child, without consuming a
  large amount of memory to do so.

* :var:`config.quit_action` allows one to specify an action that is run when
  the quit button (in the corner of the window) is pressed.
  config.game_menu_action allows one to specify an action that is run
  when entering the game menu. 

* The :var:`config.screenshot_crop` configuration variable controls the area of
  the screen that it stored when the user presses the screenshot key. 

* The :func:`renpy.music.register_channel` method now has two additional
  parameters, file_prefix and file_suffix. These are prepended and
  appended to filenames provided to the registered channel,
  respectively.
  
* The new :func:`renpy.list_files` method returns a list of files in the game
  directory and archives. This can be used to write your own automatic
  image loading method, among other things.

* The interaction between Character and Text has been rewritten to ensure
  that text is only tokenized once. This required changing a few of the
  methods on ADVCharacter and NVLCharacter, so code that inherits from
  those classes should be checked.
  
* The distribution code has been moved into launcher/distribute.py. This
  file can be run from the command line to build distributions in shell
  scripts and other automated processes.

* When there are transparent areas on the screen, and
  :var:`config.developer` is true, the transparent areas are filled
  with a checkerboard pattern.

* The new ``input``, ``side``, ``grid``, and ``fixed`` styles were created,
  and the corresponding displayables use them by default. 

* When a style is accessed at init-time, and doesn't exist, we divide it
  into two parts at the first underscore. If the second part corresponds
  to an existing style, we create a new style instead of causing an error.
  
* The python compiler has been rewritten to use the python ast module.
  This should both improve performance, and improve error handling for
  python syntax.

  Because of this change, Ren'Py now ships with and requires Python 2.6.

* The following numbered bugs were fixed:

  * 520276 - ctc does not appear when cps interrupted
  * 526297 - im.Rotozoom()s crash when Ren'Py is scaled down. (Thanks to Spiky Caterpillar for the bug report and fix.)
  * 543785 - Launcher bug on select Projects Directory
  * 583112 - rollback while a movie displayable is shown leaves a video frame onscreen
  * 595532 - Wrong text in tutorial game. (Thanks to Viliam BÃºr.)
  
* The following other bugs were fixed:
  
  * Renamed the internal show and hide methods of Displayable, so those
    names can once again be used by user-defined displayables.

  * Rewrote MultipleTransition (which is used by Fade) to fix some
    problems it was exhibiting.

  * Take the condition parameter to Character into account when determining
    if an nvl clear occurs before the next interaction.



